Adding meeting notes for Editors meeting 47 (#288)
cardano-foundation/CIPs: BiweeklyMeetings/2022-06-28.md

**Table of Contents:** 

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Editors Meeting Flow](#editors-meeting-flow)
- [June 28 2022 Transcript](#june-28-2022-transcript)
  * [Triage](#triage)
    + [PR 271- CIP-0027? | Update Proposal: Multiple Royalty Addresses](#pr271)
  * [Last Check](#last-check)
    + [CIP-0054? | Cardano Smart NFTs](#pr263)
    + [PR267 CIP-0025: Added version 2 and cddl](#pr267)     
  * [Review](#review)
    + [CIP-0044? | Additional factors for NFT market verification](#pr226)
    + [CIP-0381? | Plutus support for pairings over curve Bls12-381](#pr220)     
    + [CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update](#pr242)
  * [Discussions](#discussions)
  * [Issues](#issues)
  * [Close](#close)

## Summary

Rough transcript of 28/06/22 Editors CIP meeting, to increase transparency and dialogue with the community regarding proposed changes, implementations and considerations.  
<sub>_Transcript might contain errors or miss pieces - call out issues as needed_
</sub>  

> Editors meetings are [public](https://discord.gg/36ezQYTvgk), [recorded](https://www.youtube.com/c/CardanoFoundation/videos) and [transcript](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/BiweeklyMeetings): do join and participate for discussions/PRs of significances to you.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Editors meetings are [public](https://discord.gg/36ezQYTvgk), [recorded](https://www.youtube.com/c/CardanoFoundation/videos) and [transcript](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/BiweeklyMeetings): do join and participate for discussions/PRs of significance to you.  
```

**Last Check**: Review of the PRIOR meetings Decisions  - if no objection, apply change (effectively a two week lag from decision to action, as a grace period)  

**New CIPs Review**: CIPs up for review should be looked over collectively, with discussion where needed. (on top of the asynchronous reviews)  

PR -> ‘Draft’: Needs format + approval.  
‘Draft’ -> ‘Proposed’: Needs a PLAN towards Active + implementation.  
‘Proposed’ -> ‘Active’:  Objective criteria as laid out observed, and consensus agreeing.   
**Current Discussions**: What the current CIPs discussions are on social media / forums / Discord.  

**Issues**: Review of the open Issues on the CIP GitHub 

**Close**: Recap of actions taken and decisions. List the CIPs that are due for review.  

## June 28 2022 Transcript
**Attending Editors**: Matthias Benkort, Sebastien Guillemot, Frederic Johnson, Robert Phair. 
**Guests**: Morgan Thomas, Michael Liesenfelt

### Triage

#### PR271
[PR271 CIP-0027? | Update Proposal: Multiple Royalty Addresses](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/271)

**Matthias** -: CIP-0027? | Update Proposal: Multiple Royalty Addresses

>   And that current CIP is already active. It's been used by a few marketplaces. So it doesn't quite make sense to modify it as much. As for the proposal itself, I made already some remark last week. I think the author came back saying yes, true. But that would make for a worse UX. And therefore I would prefer the approach. They have a client in the proposal, which is fair enough, but I still maintain that it should be made as a separate proposal, which is an extension of the existing one rather than modifying what exists and has been used in a while.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  And that current CIP is already active. It's been used by a few marketplaces. So it doesn't quite make sense to modify it as much. As for the proposal itself, I made already some remark last week. I think the author came back saying: "Yes, true. But that would make for a worse UX. And therefore I would prefer the approach". They have a good rationale in the proposal, which is fair enough, but I still maintain that it should be made as a separate proposal, as an extension of the existing one rather than modifying what exists and has been used in a while.
```

**M. Àngels** -:  So I see you maintain a conversation. So from my understanding, Nicolas will need to make a separate, right?

**Matthias** -: Yes, indeed.

**M. Àngels** -:  So shall we add that we are waiting for the author?

**Matthias** -: I think that's pretty much the case now because the proposal by itself...

> **Robert** -: [Issues with the audio] I don't think based on what Matthias was saying before, which he'd probably be staying now, if he could. It sounds like that can only really go ahead as a separate CIP because of the existing implementations that it would be incompatible with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Robert** -: [Issues with the audio: Robert cannot hear Matthias] I don't think based on what Matthias was saying before, which he'd probably be staying now, if he could. It sounds like that can only really go ahead as a separate CIP because of the existing implementations that it would be incompatible with.
```
I hope adding some context to the annotations will clarify the otherwise confusing dialogue.  Again I apologise for the issue on my end (I could hear Maria but not Matthias).  FYI Discord says "occasionally" some users cannot hear others & the fix is to refresh the web app (Ctrl-R) but it was about 10 minutes before I could figure this out. 😖

Reviewer 2: That was an interesting moment :sweat_smile:

**M. Àngels** -:  And apologies on my lack of knowledge on this. So in this case, what 
is the next step.

**Robert** -: As far as I know, we would say that this is waiting for author. And then 
if that is the agreement, then we would deprecate this one in favor of the new PR once the author submits it.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay.

**Matthias** -: I think it can also be the same PR right, it can just modify it.

**Robert** -: I can add that label now waiting for author, if that's okay with everybody else.

**Matthias** -: Yeah, good.

**M. Àngels** -:  I was doing it already, so don't worry about this.

**Matthias** -: So the content itself, I mean, I already admitted my remark last week and I agree with the author. I think I've just asked him to put that as a rational because I would avoid having this discussion again. Should be fine, but just as a separate content.

**M. Àngels** -:  Perfect.

> **Matthias** -: Two different.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Matthias** -: It is too different.
```

### Last Check 

#### PR263
[PR263 CIP-0054? | Cardano Smart NFTs](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/263)

Okay. So we move to the items on last check. So we have PR 263, CIP 54, Cardano smart NFTs.

> **Matthias** -: Yes. So this one was on last check, I think because it was substantially discussed on the forum. And this is like the results of quite a few weeks of discussions. Had another go at it today, actually. So made a few small remarks. It's mainly on the editorial aspect. So just titles and sections to stick a bit more to [crosstalk 00:03:17].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Matthias** -: Yes. So this one was on last check, I think because it was substantially discussed on the forum. And this is like the results of quite a few weeks of discussions. Had another go at it today, actually. So made a few small remarks. It's mainly on the editorial aspect. So just titles and sections to stick a bit more to the template.
```

> **Robert** -: [Issues with the audio] I was hoping again, that Matthias was going to be jumping in with his eloquent voice because he's already said everything. He's made some substantial comments on this issue so far. And I think what he wrote today on GitHub is self explanatory for the things that the author would have to respond to still. I guess this could remain in last check until we have responses about all of those. So I would suggest postponing this until the next meeting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Robert** -: [Issues with the audio; Robert still cannot hear Matthias] I was hoping again, that Matthias was going to be jumping in with his eloquent voice because he's already said everything. He's made some substantial comments on this issue so far. And I think what he wrote today on GitHub is self explanatory for the things that the author would have to respond to still. I guess this could remain in last check until we have responses about all of those. So I would suggest postponing this until the next meeting.
```

Reviewer 2: > I was hoping again, that Matthias was going to be jumping in with his eloquent voice

:smile: !

**Matthias** -: Yeah.

**M. Àngels** -:  I am going to organize and see.

**Matthias** -: If you can ping a few people.

**M. Àngels** -:  I know that we have some telegram channels with marketplaces so we can reach to them.

**Robert** -: So you pitched via private channels?

**Matthias** -: No. Via GitHub I think. That should be enough or perhaps on Discord, I don't know.

**M. Àngels** -:  Okay. We can discuss about how to approach them after the call, if you like to. And next one,

#### PR220
 [PR220 CIP-0381? | Plutus support for pairings over curve Bls12-381](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/220) 

**Robert** -: This is beyond me technically as well. I can see that there's a good discussion about it, but it's above my level.

**Matthias** -: Yeah. I think we have Las here.

**Robert** -: All I can tell that there is...

**Matthias** -: We could ask him [crosstalk 00:09:32] summary.

**Robert** -: God, I can't even use my mouse button to get through the amount of discussion on this.

**M. Àngels** -:  Hi, Las, do you want to give us a brief summary regarding this PR. I am not able to hear you.

> **Matthias** -: Me neither. I'm not sure if Las is speaking. He hasn't muted himself too.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Matthias** -: Me neither. I'm not sure if Las is speaking. He has un-muted himself too.
```

**M. Àngels** -:  No, it was me that I am unmuted him.

**Matthias** -: Ah, okay. And he's gone.

**M. Àngels** -:  I think that it has to do with... There's some worse things with Discord and the audio. I need to unmute. Let's try again. Now.

**Las** -:  I muted myself out of the system.

**M. Àngels** -:  Now, we can hear you perfectly. So would you like to make a summary on this PR?

**Las** -:  The data hash one?

> **Matthias** -: Nope. Not this one. The pairing over curve, BLS 1281. I think you've been putting many discussions on that one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Matthias** -: Nope. Not this one. The pairing over curve, BLS12-381. I think you've been putting many discussions on that one.
```

**Las** -:  Yes. I have. I was doing something else. Okay. It looks stable to me. I don't think there are many remaining questions. I think there was one remaining question that Michael answered with regards to what to do about the missing operations. I don't actually remember what he answered. Let me see. I think I have the answer right here. I think it might be okay as is. I don't think that's implementation or anything.

**Matthias** -: The implementation is up to the Plutu's team, I guess, at the end or is it something that will be back-ported into Plutus from some other places maybe.

**Las** -:  I think the audio GZKP team or something, I don't remember what they called will work on it.

**Matthias** -: Okay.

**Las** -:  I'm not sure of the exact situation though.

**Matthias** -: Okay. I see Michael was also part of the conversation. So I will assume Plutu's team is aware of what's coming.

**Las** -:  Yeah, they're aware.

> **Matthias** -: Okay. So I think we can just reach out to Inigo then maybe to see last message he posted was I've included your suggestions. I'm not totally convinced about this sub operation count. I removed that. Okay. So I think the author, Inigo is happy to go forward with that. And I did a few cosmetic remarks last time just to make it fit also with the templates. I would just love maybe to have confirmation from the Plutu's team before we merge that. But beyond this, it should be okay.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Matthias** -: Okay. So I think we can just reach out to Iñigo then maybe to see last message he posted was I've included your suggestions. I'm not totally convinced about this sub operation count. I removed that. Okay. So I think the author, Inigo is happy to go forward with that. And I did a few cosmetic remarks last time just to make it fit also with the templates. I would just love maybe to have confirmation from the Plutu's team before we merge that. But beyond this, it should be okay.
```

**Robert** -: I think it's a great step forward to have a topic-specific channels on Discord. The problem usually is that everyone wants to present their own opinions as if they're consensus. But if you give people a little bit of time to vent their opinions in the more public forum, usually, the consensus emerges on its own. And then one of the participants can copy it back to GitHub at that point, like Matthias just did this morning.

**M. Àngels** -:  I just would like to make sure that it's not always Matthias or any of you that needs to be doing this extra work.

**Matthias** -: And it's also my own perspective what I got from the discussion. So it's obviously, skewed to both my understanding and my own biases. [crosstalk 00:29:09].

**Robert** -: It can go the other way. Also, on the other way, I had been having a review of that thread privately with other correspondence and the author. And I actually should have been more public about posting my conclusions or my summaries, I suppose of the existing discussion back to GitHub. So when we do see common threads emerging, we should be willing to post them. And I think that would clear a lot of it up too.

> **Matthias** -: So what I see from the discussion and from the past discussion we had also, and I think I mentioned it already last time that there are multiple things being discussed as part of the CIP and it would be nice to maybe organize the conversation in multiple CIPs or multiple different forms of discussions. Like for instance, the protocol parameters, their value, and possibly changing K and things like that. That's octagonal to the CIP and to just be discussed on the side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Matthias** -: So what I see from the discussion and from the past discussion we had also, and I think I mentioned it already last time that there are multiple things being discussed as part of the CIP and it would be nice to maybe organize the conversation in multiple CIPs or multiple different forms of discussions. Like for instance, the protocol parameters, their value, and possibly changing K and things like that. That's orthogonal to the CIP and to just be discussed on the side.
```

**Michael** -:  I agree with that. As the author, I've incorporated the updates and revisions to adopting that rigor and methodology to the path to active. As Cardano transitions to an open source project, we're going to have to be very good about reaching consensuses in a non-hierarchy away. And that includes all of the input and research of the IOG team. So if they're not participating yet, consensus is not reached yet, but they have responsibilities and obligations to deliver Vasil and so that comes first. But then after that, there should reasonably be a deadline on sharing prior research or turning it over to the community if IOG can't lead that research anymore.

> **Matthias** -: I tend to agree with the sentiment. It's a bit odd at this stage that the main party needed for that conversation is actually not taking part into the conversation, which make it very hard to move forward. Though there has been someone out in KT actually also here mentioning is from IOG, but also would be nice to have a clear point of contact. I do agree. So far it has been Kevin, but Kevin is also busy with Vasil and other stuff at this stage. So we are a bit missing this point of contact with the IOG research team in particular.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Matthias** -: I tend to agree with the sentiment. It's a bit odd at this stage that the main party needed for that conversation is actually not taking part into the conversation, which make it very hard to move forward. Though there has been someone, "mkt" on Discord, actually also here mentioning is from IOG, but also would be nice to have a clear point of contact. I do agree. So far it has been Kevin, but Kevin is also busy with Vasil and other stuff at this stage. So we are a bit missing this point of contact with the IOG research team in particular.
```

**Robert** -: So can we try to separate them and see if it works? See if we can rely upon the people to keep bringing it back into GitHub once some consensus or important points are made on Discord. And then if it seems like the balance is coming out wrong, if it seems like things are only being recorded in Discord, but not being taken back to GitHub, then we can maybe look at how that how we could make that process work. I just [crosstalk 00:36:49].

**M. Àngels** -:  Can you explain it again, at least from my end, there was a little bit of background noise and I couldn't understand. I mean, I think that you were suggesting to keep the discussion on Discord, but make everyone owner of trespassing their comments.

> **Robert** -: I mean, a lot of the Discord on Discord. A lot of the discussion on Discord was repetitive and we don't want that happening on GitHub. A lot of the repetitive discussion on Discord was opinionated. And we need a chance for the opinions to play out before they're recorded as actual point of view to be recorded in GitHub. So without having a forum for people to get through the preliminaries, we end up either recording too much on GitHub, which is the opinions and the bickering, or we end up recording too little because people forget to bring back the main point from the social networking channel to the developer's record on GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Robert** -: I mean, a lot of the "discord" on Discord. A lot of the discussion on Discord was repetitive and we don't want that happening on GitHub. A lot of the repetitive discussion on Discord was opinionated. And we need a chance for the opinions to play out before they're recorded as actual point of view to be recorded in GitHub. So without having a forum for people to get through the preliminaries, we end up either recording too much on GitHub, which is the opinions and the bickering, or we end up recording too little because people forget to bring back the main point from the social networking channel to the developer's record on GitHub.
```

**M. Àngels** -:  And can I suggest to ask each participant in this casual conversation, one, not an opinion, but a more reflected position on this to ask to add it to GitHub themselves and not do the summary, the editors.

**Matthias** -: I think this can work if we discuss precise question on a Discord and then our goals, if we have precise goals, and then we bring back the results, the outcome of that discussion on the GitHub. For instance, one thing I would like to see people agree on is what would it means to be decentralized for Cardano, for this whole thing here. If people can agree on a definition of what decentralization is and would entail with something that is quantifiable and have that discussions because from the past discussion, it's not yet agreed between participant what it means.

> **Matthias** -: But once this is agreed that at least gives one criteria upon which we can start judging the CIP and the existing solution. And that will be one question. Then we move on to a different question or a different goal. And we try to structure the conversation on Discord around those goals. Anything that deviate from those goals, well, it should be self-disciplined. Instead of disciplinatory, not do it basically. So try to keep an eye on each other, but just say, no, this is not a topic. So the current topic and discussion we try to solve is this particular thing. So we break that big problem into smaller chunks and organize just discussions on one particular action on Discord up until we have done or tackle all of them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Matthias** -: But once this is agreed that at least gives one criteria upon which we can start judging the CIP and the existing solution. And that will be one question. Then we move on to a different question or a different goal. And we try to structure the conversation on Discord around those goals. Anything that deviate from those goals, well, it should be self-disciplined: don't do it basically. So try to keep an eye on each other, but just say: "no, this is not the topic. The current topic and discussion we try to solve is this particular thing". So we break that big problem into smaller chunks and organize just discussions on one particular action on Discord up until we have done or tackle all of them.
```

**M. Àngels** -:  We can give you a try. I mean, it's going to be a trial and error and we will need, as Robert said to learn from it. So let's give it a try if you agree.

> **Robert** -: Yes, it will be easier to do by setting up the discussion on that channel because the next time a contended issue comes along, it's going to blur the discussion. People may drop out or pay less focused attention. The framing questions that we might want to ask may get forgotten or push back farther in the discussions. I think that the only reason we've been able to focus on this particular issue is there aren't currently anyone like it that have attracted the same attention from the community. So we should move it off to a separate thread while we can do so easily before it gets mixed with other topics. So I would vote for creating that channel. Yes. And then to do its own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Robert** -: Yes, it will be easier to do by setting up the discussion on that channel because the next time a contended issue comes along, it's going to blur the discussion. People may drop out or pay less focused attention. The framing questions that we might want to ask may get forgotten or push back farther in the discussions. I think that the only reason we've been able to focus on this particular issue is there aren't currently any ones like it that have attracted the same attention from the community. So we should move it off to a separate thread while we can do so easily before it gets mixed with other topics. So I would vote for creating that channel. Yes.
```
Don't remember what I said for the last phrase, but it wasn't that... 🤪
